In the graphics editor , in the top left, we have 4 options in menu bar namely File, Edit, Trasform and Help.


In the file menu, you will see these buttons : "New , Load , Save ,Save As, Clear, Exit" 

These buttons will perform following functions:

New - Create a new file with different background like blank, black, dotted, graphed, notebook etc.

Load - Open an existing file on the computer.

Save - Save changes to the currently open file.

Save as - SAVE a new new file with a desired file name and to desired location on the computers Hard drive.

Clear - Clears the current open file.

Exit - Exit the current GeD.


In the Edit menu, you will see three options: Copy and Paste.

Copy: Copy the given graphics.

Paste: Paste the graphics from the clipboard.


In the Trasform menu, you will see 4 transformational options: Flip Horizontal, Flip Vertical, Rotate Right and Rotate left.

Flip Horizontal - Flip the graphics in horizontal direction.

Flip Vertical - Flip the graphics in vertical direction.
 
Rotate Right - Rotate the graphics 90 degree to right side.

Rotate Left - Rotate the graphics 90 degree to left side.


In the help menu, you will have 2 options: "User Guide , About GED ."

User Guide - Instructions about the execution of different functions of this Graphical editor.

About GED : Discription about the team.



In the middle, you will see the work area in which you can draw the graphics using different tools.



In the right side , you can see tools like Pen, Eraser, Line, Rectangle, Circle, Alpha and Colour Palette and these tools can be resized by right clicking on them.

Pen : The pen is used to draw different shapes using pointing device on the graphics.

Eraser - The eraser tool is an image editing tool used to change the opacity.

Line: Used to draw a line.

Rectangle : Used to draw a rectangle.

Circle: Used to draw a circle.

Alpha: It defines intensity of the graphics.

Colour Palette : has different colours which can be changed by clicking on them.


In the bottom left, you will see a tool to adjust the dimension of the work area, alongwith it will also show the current position of the pointer in 2D plane.
